.TH mid3v2 1 "December 12th, 2009"
.SH NAME
mid3v2 \- audio tag editor similar to 'id3v2'
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmid3v2\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIfilename\fR ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
mid3v2 is a Mutagen-based replacement for id3lib's \fBid3v2\fR. It supports
ID3v2.4 and more frames; it also does not have the numerous bugs that
plague \fBid3v2\fR.
.PP
This program exists mostly for compatibility with programs that want to tag
files using \fBid3v2\fR. For a more usable interface, we recommend Ex Falso.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-q,\ \-\-quiet
Be quiet: do not mention file operations that perform the user's request.
Warnings will still be printed.
.IP \-v,\ \-\-verbose
Be verbose: state all operations performed. This is the opposite of
--quiet. This is the default.
.IP \-f,\ \-\-list\-frames
Display all supported ID3v2.3/2.4 frames and their meanings.
.IP \-L,\ \-\-list\-genres
List all ID3v1 numeric genres. These can be used to set TCON frames,
but it is not recommended.
.IP \-l,\ \-\-list
List all tags in the files. The output format is \fInot\fR the same as
\fBid3v2\fR's; instead, it is easily parsable and readable. Some tags
may not have human-readable representations.
.IP \-\-list\-raw
List all tags in the files, in raw format. Although this format is
nominally human-readable, it may be very long if the tag contains
embedded binary data.
.IP \-d,\ \-\-delete\-v2
Delete ID3v2 tags.
.IP \-s,\ \-\-delete\-v1
Delete ID3v1 tags.
.IP \-D,\ \-\-delete\-all
Delete all ID3 tags.
.IP \-\-delete\-frames=\fIFID1,FID2,...
Delete specific ID3v2 frames (or groups of frames) from the files.
.IP \-C,\ \-\-convert
Convert ID3v1 tags to ID3v2 tags. This will also happen automatically
during any editing.
.IP \-a,\ \-\-artist=\fIartist
Set the artist information (TPE1).
.IP \-A,\ \-\-album=\fIalbum
Set the album information (TALB).
.IP \-t,\ \-\-song=\fItitle
Set the title information (TIT2).
.IP \-c,\ \-\-comment=\fIDESCRIPTION:COMMENT:LANGUAGE
Set a comment (COMM). The language and description may be omitted, in which
case the language defaults to English, and the description to an empty string.
.IP \-g,\ \-\-genre=\fIgenre
Set the genre information (TCON).
.IP \-y,\ \-\-year=,\ \-\-date=\fIYYYY\-[MM-DD]
Set the year/date information (TDRC).
.IP \-Tnum/num,\ \-\-track=\fInum/num
Set the track number (TRCK).
.PP
Any text or URL frame (those beginning with T or W) can be modified or 
added by prefixing the name of the frame with "\-\-". For example,
\fB\-\-TIT3 "Monkey!"\fR will set the TIT3 (subtitle) frame to \fBMonkey!\fR.
.SH BUGS
No sanity checking is done on the editing operations you perform, so
mid3v2 will happily accept \-\-TSIZ when editing an ID3v2.4 frame. However,
it will also automatically throw it out during the next edit operation.
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Wreschnig is the author of mid3v2, but he doesn't like to admit it.
